S Arya, Arya: Page Number Ninety,
S Arya, Arya: Chapter fourteen, Moscow.
S Arya, Arya: Nothing is so disappointing as failure except success.
S Arya, Arya: While the Dan Ziggers, with grave faces discuss the new
S Arya, Arya: Borodino. We need the trees in the
S Arya, Arya: proud and guess. Charles Darrigan,
S Arya, Arya: white with dust, rose in his stirrups to catch the first site of the dooms, and
S Arya, Arya: It was a sunny morning, and the gold on the churches gleamed and glittered the shimmering heat like a fairyland.
S Arya, Arya: Charles had ridden to the summit of a hill, and set for a moment, as others had done
S Arya, Arya: in silent
S Arya, Arya: contemplation, Moscow at last. All around him men were shouting Moscow, mass Cow!
S Arya, Arya: Grave white hair generals
S Arya, Arya: waved their shackles in the end.
S Arya, Arya: Those at the summit of the hill called the others to come Far down in the valley, where the dust raised by thousands of feet hung in the air like a mist. A faint sound like a roar of falling water could be heard. It was the word Moscow,
S Arya, Arya: sweeping back to the rare, most ranks of the starving men who had marched for two months beneath. The glaring sun, passed with dust through a country that seemed to them a Sahara.
S Arya, Arya: Every house they approached they had
S Arya, Arya: pound deserted, every barn was empty, the very crops ripening to harvest had been gathered in and burnt near to the miserable farmhouses, a pile of ashes hardly called Mark, where
S Arya, Arya: the poor furniture had been tossed upon, The fire kindled with the ears harvest.
S Arya, Arya: Everywhere it was the same.
S Arya, Arya: There are
S Arya, Arya: as God created it few countries of a sader aspect than that which spreads between the Moscow and the Western,
S Arya, Arya: but it has been decreed by the dim laws of a race, that the ugly countries shall be blessed with the greater love of their children. While men born in a beautiful land, seemed ready to emigrate from it and make the best settlers in a new home.
S Arya, Arya: There is only one country in the world with the ring fence around it. If a Russian is driven from his home he will go to another part of Russia. There is always room before the advance of the spoilers charted by their leader to unlimited and open that
S Arya, Arya: open. Indeed, he had let them hither. With that understanding the
S Arya, Arya: Russians, peasant and noble alike fled to the
S Arya, Arya: a hundred times The advance guard, fully alive to the advantages of their position, had raised to the gates of a
S Arya, Arya: chateau, only to find, on breaking open the doors that it was empty,
S Arya, Arya: the furniture destroyed, the stores burnt, the wine poured out,
S Arya, Arya: so also in the peasants hut, some more careful than the rest, and pulled the that from the roof to burn it. There was no corner in this the Egypt of their
S Arya, Arya: page number ninety-one greedy hopes,
S Arya, Arya: and lest they should bring the con with them, the spoil is found, the mills everywhere wrecked. It was something new to them. It was new to Napoleon, who had so frequently been met halfway,
S Arya, Arya: who knew that men for greed will part smilingly with half in order to save the residue.
S Arya, Arya: He knew that many rather than help a neighbor who is in danger by a Robert will join the robber and share this point, crying out that force
S Arya, Arya: Major was used to them.
S Arya, Arya: But as every man must judge according to his light, so must even the greatest find himself in the dark at last. No man of the Latin race will ever understand the Slav,
S Arya, Arya: and because the beginning is easy, because in certain superficial tricks of speech and thought, Paddy and
S Arya, Arya: Petersburg are not unlike it so
S Arya, Arya: much the more is the breach widened when necessity takes deeper than the surface.
S Arya, Arya: For to make the
S Arya, Arya: acquaintance of a danger who seems to be a counterpart of once self in thought and taste. It's like the first hearing of a hindered language, such as Dutch
S Arya, Arya: to the English. Here at first it sounds like one's own tongue with a hundred identical words. But on closer listening it will be found that the words mean something else, and that the whole is incomprehensible, and the more difficult to acquire by the very reason of its resemblance.
S Arya, Arya: Napoleon thought that the Russians would act as his enemies of the Latin race has acted. He thought that, like his own people, they would be over confident, urging each other on to great deeds by loud words and one hundred boosts.
S Arya, Arya: But the Russians lack self-confidence are timid rather than over bold, dreamy, rather than fiery only their women are glib of speech. He thought that they would begin very brilliantly, and end with the compromise, heartbreaking at first, and soon lived down.
S Arya, Arya: They are savages out here in the planes, he said. It is a barbaric and stupid instinct that makes them destroy their own property for the sake of hampering us. As we approach Moscow we shall find that the more civilized inhabitants of the villages,
S Arya, Arya: in averted by an easy life, rendered selfish by possession of wealth, will not abandon their property, but will barter and sell to us, and find themselves the victims of our might,
S Arya, Arya: and the army believed him, for they always believed him. Faith can indeed move mountains. It carried four hundred thousand men without provisions
S Arya, Arya: through a barren land, and now in sight of the Golden City. The army was still hungry; nay, it was dragged already in three columns. It conversed on the doomed capital, driving before it
S Arya, Arya: base number ninety-two.
S Arya, Arya: Here again on the hill, looking down into the smiling value of the Moscow, the unexpected awaited the invaders. The city, shimmering in the sunlight like the realization of somewhere upstream, was silent. The Cossacks had disappeared except those around the
S Arya, Arya: Kremlin towering about the river. The city had no walls.
S Arya, Arya: The army faulted, while
S Arya, Arya: eight
S Arya, Arya: it's they camp, flew hither and thither on their very horses. Charles Dargan, sunburned, dusty pors, with cheering was among the first. He looked right and left for the Casimir, but could not see him. He had not seen his chief since Borodino,
S Arya, Arya: for he was temporarily attached to the staff of Prince Eugene, who had lost heavily at the Kaluga River,
S Arya, Arya: a liaguard city, and a wait. The advent in all humility of the Vancouver. Commonly it was the mayor of a town who came, followed by his
S Arya, Arya: countless in their ropes, to explain that the army had abandoned the city, which now begged to throw itself upon the mercy of the congrat. For this the army waited on that sunny September morning.
S Arya, Arya: He is putting on his ropes, they said gaily, He is new to this work. But the mayor of Moscow, disappointed at last, the troops moved on and camped for the night in a village under the Kremlin walls. It was here that Charles received a note from the Cashmere.
S Arya, Arya: I am slightly wounded route, that officer, but I am following the army at Borodina. My horse was killed under me, and I was thrown while I was insensible. I was robbed and lost what money I had,
S Arya, Arya: as well as my dispatch case. In the latter was the letter you wrote to your wife. It is lost, my friend, you must write another.
S Arya, Arya: As he lay all dressed on the hard ground, he fell to thinking of what he should write to Dasia tomorrow from Moscow.
S Arya, Arya: The Mayor date and address of such a letter would make her love him the more, he thought, or, like his leaders, he was daced by a circuit of glory as he fell asleep, smiling at these happy reflections.
S Arya, Arya: That's
S Arya, Arya: as Ray, far away in Danzig, was locking in her bureau the letter which had been lost and found again while on the deck office ship lift and gently to the tide May, where the Vistula feeds out into the Dan Ziger. But Louis D. I go,
S Arya, Arya: stood fingering a reflectively in his jacket pocket the hundred papers which had fallen from the same dispatch case. For it is this very small world in which to do wrong,
S Arya, Arya: though if a man do a little good in his lifetime. It is, heaven knows, soon mislaid and trodden under the fate of the new commerce.